# Commands

- `git add`
- `git commit`

# Big Picture Review

## Three Areas
1. Working Directory
2. Staging Index
3. Repository

## Procedures
### 1. Working Directory >> Staging Index
- **Stage Files:** `git add <file1> <file2> … <fileN>`,  then files **staged**,changes **to be committed**.
This command:
	- takes a space-separated list of file names
	- alternatively, the period  `.`  can be used in place of a list of files to tell Git to add the current directory (and all nested files)
	`git add .`
- **Unstage Files:** `git rm --cached <file1> <file2> … <fileN>`, then files **unstaged**/**untracked**
### 2. Staging Index >> Repository
- **Commit Files:** `git commit`,  then files **committed**
# Command: `git add `

# Command: `git commit`

The  `git commit`  command takes files from the Staging Index and saves them in the repository.

```
$ git commit
```

This command:

-   will open the code editor that is specified in your configuration
    -   (check out the Git configuration step from the first lesson to configure your editor)

Inside the code editor:

-   a commit message must be supplied
-   lines that start with a  `#`  are comments and will not be recorded
-   save the file after adding a commit message
-   close the editor to make the commit

Then, use  `git log`  to review the commit you just made!

### Further Research

-   [Associating text editors with Git](https://help.github.com/articles/associating-text-editors-with-git/)  from GitHub Help Docs
-   [Getting Started - First-Time Git Setup](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-First-Time-Git-Setup)  from Git book

# Good Commits Example

 - 6f04ddd Add breakpoint for large-sized screens
 - 50d835d Add breakpoint for medium-sized screens
 - 0768f3d Add space around page edge
 - f9720a9 Style page header
 - 8aa6668 Convert social links from text to images
 - c165069 Add divider between content/footer
 - 39ff53c Add divider between main/side content
 - 20a3470 Add missing profile picture
 - 8d3ea36 Style 'read more' links
 - e6a8e07 Set paragraph line-height
 - 4a60beb Set default text color
 - 5de135a Set article timestamp color
 - 921c387 Align article header content
 - 7471693 Make article images responsive
 - 8dec321 Add 'visuallyhidden' helper class
 - d638b69 Add article images
 - 70f6352 Set default fonts
 - 9a21730 Give body a default color
 - cdce4fa Add Normalize.css CSS reset to project
 - 10ea3fe Add colors & set better box-sizing
 - fdf5493 Add sidebar content
 - 8a11b3f Update article dates
 - 4e16c7e Add article content
 - b4521d7 Add starting HTML structure
 - 40e2199 Add starter files
 - 9362088 Initial commit


# Udacity Git Commit Message Style Guide

## Introduction

This style guide acts as the official guide to follow in your projects. Udacity evaluators will use this guide to grade your projects. There are many opinions on the "ideal" style in the world of development. Therefore, in order to reduce the confusion on what style students should follow during the course of their projects, we urge all students to refer to this style guide for their projects.

## Commit Messages

### Message Structure

A commit messages consists of three distinct parts separated by a blank line: the title, an optional body and an optional footer. The layout looks like this:

```
type: subject

body

footer
```

The title consists of the type of the message and subject.

### The Type

The type is contained within the title and can be one of these types:

-   **feat:**  a new feature
-   **fix:**  a bug fix
-   **docs:**  changes to documentation
-   **style:**  formatting, missing semi colons, etc; no code change
-   **refactor:**  refactoring production code
-   **test:**  adding tests, refactoring test; no production code change
-   **chore:**  updating build tasks, package manager configs, etc; no production code change

### The Subject

Subjects should be no greater than 50 characters, should begin with a capital letter and do not end with a period.

Use an imperative tone to describe what a commit does, rather than what it did. For example, use  **change**; not changed or changes.

### The Body

Not all commits are complex enough to warrant a body, therefore it is optional and only used when a commit requires a bit of explanation and context. Use the body to explain the  **what**  and  **why**  of a commit, not the how.

When writing a body, the blank line between the title and the body is required and you should limit the length of each line to no more than 72 characters.

### The Footer

The footer is optional and is used to reference issue tracker IDs.

### Example Commit Message

```
feat: Summarize changes in around 50 characters or less

More detailed explanatory text, if necessary. Wrap it to about 72
characters or so. In some contexts, the first line is treated as the
subject of the commit and the rest of the text as the body. The
blank line separating the summary from the body is critical (unless
you omit the body entirely); various tools like `log`, `shortlog`
and `rebase` can get confused if you run the two together.

Explain the problem that this commit is solving. Focus on why you
are making this change as opposed to how (the code explains that).
Are there side effects or other unintuitive consequenses of this
change? Here's the place to explain them.

Further paragraphs come after blank lines.

 - Bullet points are okay, too

 - Typically a hyphen or asterisk is used for the bullet, preceded
   by a single space, with blank lines in between, but conventions
   vary here

If you use an issue tracker, put references to them at the bottom,
like this:

Resolves: #123
See also: #456, #789
```
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbLTc2MjYxMTcxN119
-->